have you ever seen a $1 trillion bailout
of the real estate market well it's
happening right now you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
in today's video we are going to talk
about all things real estate we're going
to look at commercial we'll look at
residential I want to look at this in
the United States in Canada in China and
so much more I've got a lot to cover and
I want to begin with what you're seeing
here A10 billion real estate fund is
bleeding cash and running out of options
so you might have seen this there's the
Wall Street Journal this is talking
about the you know the same situation in
Financial Times starwoods $10 billion
property fund Taps credit line as
investors pull money heavy Redemption
requests come as fears rise over real
estate valuations this is a big problem
not just for smaller companies not even
the medium it's all the way top to
bottom because commercial real estate
particularly retail and office
are the worst offenders now this affects
everybody because one dominal Falls the
next and the next this is important to
look at because of redemptions I've seen
redemptions and how they work personally
um looking at these companies which they
screwed up for whatever reason investors
start to pull their money out that sort
of a bank run in a sense and the fund
they have this mechan mechanism uh
called shutting the front
door which disables those people from
pulling their money out you might say no
way they can't do that they won't do
that that happens all the time it
happens all the time okay and so of
course people start getting
upset but they open that up at a certain
point of time and what happens well they
open the door just a crack every so
often and as much as people can get out
they get out and then they close the
fund and then it opens again and they
keep doing this basically to wind that
fund down eventually of course the value
of it will be Pennies on the dollar this
is what happens to any potential asset
any potential fund that's the problem
that we've seen for many many years is
not just this one
company the highest share of loans on
record have initial maturity in the next
2 years looking at it share of loans
maturing over the following two years
annually since 2008 anyway it's a higher
number now than we have seen uh in years
so we know that if interest rates remain
high this is going to be a problem where
is this is this just the US is it no let
me let me tell you what's happening here
this is talking about uh Toronto some US
cities are being devastated by downtown
Doom Loops as offices empty out here's
how Toronto compares the situation is
dire absolutely dire Toronto's downtown
foot traffic recovery rate is below the
median of the Cities measured but it
will likely avoid the fate of cities
like St Louis and San Francisco which
are seeing serious declines oh yeah I'm
sure I'm real sure what happened here is
multi level literally so Toronto has an
underground area that I forget how many
miles is underneath the entire downtown
core is basically a city and there's
effectively a mall under the entire
downtown and it's connecting all the
office Towers all together connecting
the subway connecting everything down
there and so there was all these shops
but 2020 not only did the big tall
towers close down above the city but
below where what they call Path is p a
this all all of them closed down every
single one it was a ghost town and so
those were all the coffee shops and the
you know clothing stores and all these
different things that were there nobody
was coming in it was devastating
absolutely devastating and there has
been no recovery yes there are people
back to work it's not the same it's not
the same the most Splendid housing
bubbles in Canada spring rally Fizzles
prices are
14% down from the peak in February 2022
and Below September 2021 new listings
rise inventory does the second biggest
jump on record so looking at Toronto
minus 15 down from the peak now that was
crazy I always like to look at anytime
we have these crazy Peaks to kind of
just cut them off when they it's in the
bottom or the top because yeah things
can get crazy for you know a couple
months or something but that is not
indicative what was even happening
within that year right is just these
blowoff tops and so you know keep that
in mind I just think that when prices
get so elevated it it's really um a sign
of really a danger it's like holding a
stick of dynamite we don't want that we
don't want to have any part of that but
what about China what's happening there
while things are getting
serious the situation is so bad that
look at this China's real estate workers
are taking 90% pay cuts so basically
working for nothing and skipping social
events to survive the property
slump this tells you how bad things are
China unveils historic rescue for crisis
hit property sector as home prices slump
again there's no recovery here because
based on different estimations there's
20 to 30 million empty properties at the
same time culturally you know they don't
want to buy a property that someone has
already lived in so what do you do right
you just keep building new you just
destroy buildings and then just build
them up again I mean doesn't make any
sense right so there are 20 to 30
million empty properties how you going
to fill that up anytime soon and there's
probably a lot more by the way those are
just the ones that are emitting and
that's how you get around it China goes
on a $1 trillion apartment buying spree
A1 trillion bailout is that what we are
seeing here well China's national team
is Going house hunting state-owned
Enterprises and local governments are
answering beijing's call to purchase the
country's vast swath of unsold
apartments that should help put a floor
on the plunging property
prices think about this so
the government says look you want to do
your National Duty you better buy you
better buy so they're doing so they're
doing that and I'm sure they want to be
in the good books right so they're doing
this a trillion dollar that's a trillion
US dollar worth that's massive even you
know for other countries on the US you
know when we look at a bailout of a
trillion dollars that would make it you
know even a a dent in the United States
never mind China because China real
estate is just it's
massive it's massive and if anybody
remembers do you remember the size of
China's property Market at least at that
time when I showed you that chart a
couple times do you remember how big it
was test let's put it in the comments
below how big was China's property
Market at that Peak okay I believe it
was Goldman Sachs who had that uh detail
there and then this Boomers property
wealth to be lost in fire sales to pay
inheritance tax bills real estate is so
important for many reasons people use it
as an ATM today people use it because
they feel that you know this is the I'm
going to make my home my number one
investment and I am going to pull money
out from it because that's my bank
account I could use it okay well you see
what's happening and the destruction of
people's wealth potentially look at what
happened during 2008 people were
diligently paying their mortgage they
were doing everything that they thought
was right and then some people started
messing around with these mortgage back
Securities and all that and were ruining
innocent people as a result of all of
this they caused a crisis which pushed
all the value was down and they became
underwater baby boomer homes will have
to be sold off in fire sales as their
families are hit by unaffordable
inheritance tax bills baby boomer will
pass 1.2 trillion in inheritance over
the next few decades but a combination
of soaring property values and lack of
preparation could leave the loved ones
in financial Peril at the very height of
their grief it depends So This Is Us
depends on where you live some places
don't have inheritance taxes so on but
just understand this that you've got to
plan accordingly plan properly take the
initiative now today now today start
looking into it you don't need to just
move your money you know to you know off
the Mars right now today but take the
initiative take the action whatever you
think you should be doing just just
investigate okay have a few meetings do
things that you think are the right
thing to do and ask the right questions
write down if you need to plan okay well
next year at this time I'm going to do
it maybe I'm not going to do it that
action today because it's going to cost
a little bit too much money but this is
the time I'm going to do it I'm
preparing accordingly for that unless
you take action you will not succeed
that is the most important thing what
separates the people who get things done
and those who don't are those who take
action if you appreciate this message
hit that Thumbs Up Button what can you
do diligently pay your debt don't get
into bad debt that's the first thing you
got to do things sometimes what they
call house hacking and what does that
mean basically for some people they can
buy a unit that's like a duplex maybe
it's three four five units whatever it
is and they could potentially be living
in one they could be splitting their
house in two they could live in the
basement and they rent out the upstairs
whatever it takes these times we got to
do whatever it takes and people can get
by not only just get by but do much
better as a result okay there are much
more detail I cover them in my books I
have my playlists on the YouTube channel
right here for you and of course I've
got the link at the top of the
description which is basically the
finance Friday uh and of course I got my
Sunday business which I'm telling you
right now will be very useful to a lot
of you okay just check it out you can
try it for a month if you're not happy
there's no contract so anyway link is at
the top of that description right there
I appreciate you being here today and
I'll see you tomorrow take care